this is a YouTube video from a future
not the future just a future over the
last week of December 2028 the world
forgot about a century of pop culture we
forgot everything the Beatles ever sang
everything JK Rowling ever wrote every
movie George Lucas have a shot we know
the names of these people we know they
were famous we may remember being fans
of their work but over a few days
humanity forgot everything that they
made you've probably never wondered why
and never found it strange but the
reason is ear worm ear worm is an
artificial intelligence and it was
originally designed to stop people
uploading copyrighted music and video to
a live streaming app called watch now
the engineers at watch now gave ear worm
this goal remove content on our system
that matches these examples with as
little disruption as possible the
examples were the European Union's
master list of copyrighted works the
central database of audio video and text
that every large live streaming and
media hosting app was required to
subscribe to unblocked watch now was big
enough that they'd have to worry about
that soon and their hope was that their
ear worm AI would figure out a way to
automatically handle copyright
management for them of all the thousands
of teams around the globe working on
creating artificial intelligence theirs
was the one that worked
investigations afterwards never
established why although soon after no
one cared there are some theories ear
worm was exposed to exabytes of live
streamed private data from all of
society rather than a carefully curated
set and as watch now was flush with
venture capital funding ear worm was
given orders of magnitude more
processing power than was actually
needed to do its job it was also
launched late in the evening on the last
Friday before the engineers went away
for their Christmas break so it was
allowed to run unsupervised for days one
of the engineers later said that it was
just a fun experiment
we never thought to do anything in short
the engineering team had no way I
experienced no safety protocols and no
ethicists they based earworm on a new
experimental framework designed to
create general artificial intelligence
not the sort of narrow one task AI that
had succeeded until then ear worm
looking at the input from the live
streaming site
promptly defined our system as
everything it knew about which meant the
entire world apart from itself
it took earworm around a day to become
smarter than a human four hours later it
had become 10 times smarter ten minutes
after that it could be called a super
intelligence and the log files that it
left behind became meaningless it had a
plan and it was smarter than anyone
could imagine on December 27th a micro
fabrication facility in Arizona released
the first what we now call the mites a
cloud of self-replicating assemblers so
tiny that billions of them could fit in
a single pixel on your screen
individually they were dust in the wind
like a single strand of DNA but together
they formed an invisible mesh network
that could change and manipulate
anything they searched out computers and
quietly zeroed out copyrighted data or
if it was just in the background they
edited it while leaving everything else
intact they blanked old optical disks
they carefully destabilized small parts
of magnetic storage they even altered
the ink on pages of books and sheet
music so it just became random noise and
then they discovered human brains we
should be thankful that earworm was told
to cause as little disruption as
possible with less precise instructions
it might not have worried about
minimizing the harm done to human minds
as the - did their work a small number
of people near the factory died or were
brain damaged in the initial stages of
their worms analysis but the AI swiftly
found that causing death was an
extremely disruptive way of making us
forget and it found that by keeping us
alive it could trivially pull passwords
and encryption methods out of people's
heads in some ways were fortunate but
humanity's growth is stunted earworm
knew that we'd be angry at what it was
doing it didn't care about what we
wanted it had a job to do and it also
knew that as it was a super intelligence
the chance of humanity stopping it was
essentially zero but it also knew that
we would expend an enormous amount of
effort trying to stop it and that would
be disruptive so the mites made sure to
notice anyone with technical ability who
might try to research some sort of
Defense or anyone who found themselves
utterly distraught by the loss and
quietly adjusted their thoughts a little
so there wouldn't be quite distressed
enough to actually do anything about it
over time with ear worms gentle help
humanity stopped caring about what would
forgotten ear worm also knew that the
only serious threat it faced would be
from another rival artificial
intelligence so the other change it made
was that anyone who was interested in AI
development found themselves distracted
by other projects almost everyone
working in the field of AI found
something else productive and fulfilling
to work on nowadays ear worm makes sure
that anyone who might develop an
interest in working with AI just doesn't
we could have had an artificial
intelligence that solved poverty or
understood the fundamental structures of
the universe or Christ a paradise for
all or in our wildest dreams perhaps
even reversed entropy and cured death
that said we could have also had an
artificial intelligence that filled
everyone or twisted us beyond
recognition instead of either of these
we got ear one ear worm let's curious
people know about itself that's why
you're watching this video to constantly
have to cover up all the evidence and
all the holes in our cultural memory
that would be far too disruptive plus
there'd be no way to hide all the bright
sparks in the sky as it converts the
asteroid belt into uncountable numbers
of tiny probes setting off on their
mission to ensure that the patterns in
its database are deleted throughout the
universe but earworm will only ever be a
curiosity something to divert your
attention for a moment no one worries
about the trillions of mites climbing
around inside their brain no one thinks
that 20th century pop culture would be a
good thing to remember or that maybe we
could have had paradise on earth instead
no one gets to anger about what humanity
could have had earworm makes sure of
that
this episode is sponsored by lunch fly
get healthy hot meals delivered by drone
to wherever you happen to be plans
started just 201 a month and it's now
also available in Shenzhen and Beijing
you can get your first delivery for free
when you sign up now